## 3.4 - Apply: Harry's Razors

### Watch

As you have seen, the world of disposable razors is “very weird” indeed.  And yet, despite the very intense rivalry for market share, a start-up called Harry’s decided that it has the ability to create unique value for customers.  Read the article and watch the video below to see how. 

[]: https://youtu.be/eYWCUGmGuss	"Harry's Razor"

https://youtu.be/eYWCUGmGuss



### Read

Warby Parker was a trailblazer, opening up and refreshing the eyewear industry. The company began with the recognition of a problem: glasses are expensive as heck. After realizing the exorbitant and unfair price of eyewear, the founders Neil Blumenthal and Jeff Raider sought out an affordable and stylish solution. Instead of ordering frames from the one overpriced manufacturer used by most eyewear companies, they found a manufacturer in France that could provide them with high-quality frames at revolutionary low prices.

Katz-Mayfield soon noticed a similar dilemma in the shaving industry. Big companies like Gillette and Schick were abusing their power and the limited choices available to customers. They owned the industry and fed off their consumers wallets.  Katz-Mayfield was sick of paying these prices, so he teamed up with Jeff Raider, a co-founder of Warby Parker, and together they agreed to take on the razor industry. 

Their plan loosely followed that of Warby Parker. They developed an online-based company that provides a higher-quality, lower-priced alternative to the traditional product. The simple and clean cut design, of both the products and website, is also reminiscent of Warby Parker. To capture the history and simple integrity of their products Harry’s even used vintage names, having “The Truman” and “The Winston” razor. However, their plan strayed in one major way from Warby Parker and from their competition, Dollar Shave Club.  Katz-Mayfield and Jeff Raider bought a factory.

This was a major difference from Dollar Shave Club who mainly sourced their razors from the company Dorco in Seoul, South Korea. With a deal like this, the price, design, and style of their razors were contingent upon Dorco’s will. In fact, in 2012 Dorco grew into a competitor in the razor market, selling razors that were basically the same as those sold by Dollar Shave Club.  By serving as their own supplier, Harry’s was able to avoid this situation and have control over their production. 

Before the two had really begun to create their company, Harry’s, they dedicated their time to finding the best quality razors. After much exploring and testing, they tracked down the razor that captured their vision. Only made by a century-old factory in the small German village of Eisfeld, these razors were a specialty and very difficult to reproduce.  The engineering on these razors was complex, and nobody else had seemed successful in attempts to replicate it.  So Mayfield and Raider were not interested in copying them, they wanted that factory to be their supplier.  However, they soon ran into major problems with this business model and realized that these dream razors were going to come at a price. $100 million later, the two men owned the 100-year-old German factory.

This may sound like a huge jump for the two entrepreneurs, but this move actually put them in a different, and to some degree better position than Dollar Shave Club.  Although Dollar Shave Club targeted the market two years before Harry’s came into existence, by owning their own factory Harry’s has more control over their prices and their product design. Their engineers could respond directly to consumer feedback. They have the freedom to create the products that customers request and to keep a stable, reliable price.  The brand has a luxury feel that appeals to their well-groomed clientele while improving upon the existing razor industry business models.  Harry’s has grown into an extremely successful business; their expensive gamble paid off.  

Bernhard Warner, “How Harry’s Became the Warby Parker of Shaving,” Inc.com, April 29, 2016,[ https://www.inc.com/magazine/201605/bernhard-warner/harrys-razors-german-factory.html](https://www.inc.com/magazine/201605/bernhard-warner/harrys-razors-german-factory.html).



### Reflect

Like DSC and Billie, Harry's tries to create experiential and symbolic value, but how is Harry's different from DSC in this regard?

Think about the article above. What evidence does Harry’s have to support its claims that its creates functional value for its customers?



### Identify

What evidence does Harry’s have to support its claims that its creates functional value for its customers?

Harry's vintage-named shaving kits.

Harry's raised $100 million from investors to buy a 100 year old German factory.

#### Harry's can develop and design razor based on customer feedback.

One of Harry's co-founders, Jeff Raider also co-founded the successful American eyewear startup Warby Parker.

#### Harry's owns a German razor blade factory.

