## 3.5 - Apply: Write a Positioning Statement for Harry's

In this section, you'll review how to create a positioning statement and then write your own.

### Read and Watch

For Harry’s to continue to grow, it will eventually need to attract and create value for additional target segments.  However, before attacking that problem it would be wise for Harry to document its current position with its current segment.  Write a positioning statement for Harry’s.  The video below shows an example of a possible positioning statement for Billie’s as a reminder of the structure of these statements. Watch the video and then create a positioning statement for Harry’s.

VIDEO



**For  	target market **    women who are socially aware and who prefer the convenience of shopping online   ,     **brand **    Billie    is the only brand among all 	products in category     shaving products   **that 	unique value claim     provides** a shaving experience specifically designed for women   **because**  	reasons to believe.     Billie’s products - include female-friendly design such as rounded edges for curves, are priced fairly,  and are free of harmful additives and toxins.  

### Write a positioning statement for Harry's

For Harry’s to continue to grow, it will eventually need to attract and create value for additional target segments.  However, before attacking that problem it would be wise for Harry to document its current position with its current segment. 

- Write a positioning statement for Harry’s and post it on the discussion board below.
- Read through at least five of your classmates' positioning statements and provide suggestions or comments on at least two.
- Vote for the positioning statements you think are best.

**For men who are quality conscious and prefer shopping online, Harry is the only brand among all shaving products that provide high quality shaving experience at affordable prices because Harry's products are manufactured at highest precision factory from the finest materials and ingredients, are fairly priced and provide a great shaving experience.**

Good one from posts:

For men who value design and engineering and convenience in a razor, Harry's is the only razor on the market that incorporates hundred-year-old German engineering that cannot be replicated with the sleekness and well-thought out design and be delivered straight to your door without breaking the bank because we have cut out the retailer and own the technology and supplier.

--------------

A few key things to remember about positioning statements:

- The target market needs to be specific.
- If you can put a competitor’s name in place of your brands name and the positioning statement still holds true, then either you don’t have anything on which to differentiate yourself or it probably isn’t a very good positioning statement. 
- Unique value claims need to be unique to Harry’s (or at a minimum, not ubiquitous in the market) and need to be things that actually create value for the target market. 
- Remember that a positioning statement needs to be written in very clear language so that everyone in the firm interprets them in the same way.  

