## 2.2 - Practice: Position a Product for a Target Segment

#### READ

### **Practicing Identifying Your Position**

Let’s practice thinking about how to position a product for a target segment. The choice of a positioning approach is not only one of the most critical decisions we make as marketers, but also one of the most difficult. How do we set our product/service apart from the crowd and influence the way our target market perceives us? In other words, how do we win the battle for their minds?

We’ll start with a simple activity to help you think about positioning.



#### Consider

Imagine you have developed a new energy drink.  Who will be the customers for your new drink?  To whom should you market it?  Who do you think will buy it?  

 In your notes, identify 3 potential target segments. Focus on demographics and lifestyle segments--think about the age, gender, income of your potential customers and where and when they might consume an energy drink. For example, you might decide to target older (50-65), lower-income working women and position your energy drink as something they can drink in the afternoon to stay awake at work. 

 Now imagine that it’s time to launch your energy drink. Assume that: 

- Customers are most concerned about an energy drink’s effectiveness and taste
- Your drink is more effective and tastes better than the top-selling brand on the market. (Go you!) 
- The current top-selling energy drink positions itself as "most effective." 

Pick *one* of the target segments that you identified and decide how you might position your product for that segment. 

###  #### Post

Complete the following in the discussion board below:

- Post 2-3 sentences explaining how you would position your energy drink to your target segment. Would you try to compete on effectiveness and/or taste? Why do your positioning approach is best?

- Read through 10 your classmates' posts and provide suggestions or comments on at least two.

- Vote for the post you found most insightful.

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  The positioning statement is typically a superlative claim of some benefit to the customer.
  For example claiming, “Our power tools are the most durable” or perhaps that they’re
  “the most affordable.”
  So, again, the statement should be a benefit, not a feature.
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  My post:
  
  
  
  The target segment for the energy drink will be 20-40 years male with medium income who will use the product at work to remain effective at their work.
  
  Positioning statement:  The tastiest energy drink ever that enhances your effectivity.
  
  The demographics that I would choose will be 20-40 years old, male,medium income who work and also have active social life. The use energy drink during   social gatherings and also at work to enhance their focus during extended work periods
  
  Going for "effectiveness" will pit us directly against top-selling competition's branding positioning. They have a head start and may be aggressive when we attack headon. Going for taste would create a unique differentiator for our product (assuming there aren't other high selling drink branded as savory) and  a clear positioning. However, the customers are concerned with both effectiveness and taste and our product comes out on top in both criterion, I would position our drink for both taste and effectiveness, with emphasis on taste in marketing campaign while projecting we are more effective than competitior as subcontext. Care must be taken to not making our positioning as "confused positioning". This positioning is aligned with customer expectations of taste space from an energy drink  and is the strong suite of our product against top competitor. Hence this is the best way to capture mindspace of the target audience.

-----------------------

**What will be the three potential target segments for my new energy drink?** If i developed the energy drink in my home country, since majority of the population is the youth, my first possible potential target segment will be young adults(21-30), low income working men and position my drink as something they can drink after work to refresh them selves. My second target segment will be older adults (35- 45), middle income working men and women and position my drink as a classy men and women beverage that they can consume when they have a long day. My last target segment will be teenagers (13-19), students boys and girls and position my drink as something they can consume after school and keeps them refreshed to do their assignments and chores at home. **Which target segment will i choose and how will i position my drink?** In my home country, many people's lives has fallen into pieces through high consumption of alcohol. The main targets exposed to this problem are young adults (21-30). I will target this segment and will position my energy drink as something they can use regularly everyday after work and could relax by consuming the energy drink rather than any other alcohol. I will position it as **"Cool & Strong".**

---------------------------

According to a study by NIH (https://nccih.nih.gov/health/energy-drinks), people who consume most energy drinks are from 18 to 34 years old, while a fraction of teens (12-17) consumes them regularly. And another study (https://www.naturalproductsinsider.com/branding-marketing/61-millennials-consume-energy-drinks) breaks down the first group further into older millennial (27-37). As such, the three segments are teenagers, 18-26 active young millennials, and older millennials (27-37). I would target the the older millennial segment, as this group has a higher consumer buying power. One of the concerns regarding energy drinks is its safety. Thus, instead of having a tastier drink, I would like to rephase it as a healthier drink.

In the older millennial segment, I would position the drink as healthier and more effective drink. Since there is already a top selling competitor with an effective product, to compete, positioning it as a healthier drink as well as effective drink would set the product apart from the existing leader.

---------------

E-sports is one of the fastest-growing markets. There, the majority of renowned athletes are males. Hence, my segment of choice for the drink is young males (12 to 18 y.o.) with low-income (probably not working and still in school), who drink to stay awake and focus during long late-night gaming sessions with their friends. This segment could also be considered a point of market entry.

Since the top-selling competitor is positioned as "most effective" my strategy would be being positioned as "best taste" to differentiate from them. Nevertheless, I will still claim for the effectiveness of the drink since that is another key aspect for the customer. To sum it up in a sentence I would position the drink as "Best taste drink which also does the job" on a first stage.

After being settled as the drink with the "best taste" in the top of mind of the customers I would gradually increase my efforts to support the effectiveness of the drink without neglecting the "best taste" position.

Additionally to the two aspects above, I would also focus on price since it is usually a key aspect when targeting to a low-income segment.

--------------

*RE-FUEL YOUR BRAIN, TASTE THE ENERGY!*

**A unique value claim :** *PRODUCT* An energy drink which is highly effective; the most effective on the market and perfect for those who need to re-fuel their body and minds,not just with energy but, also essential nutrients! The drink is perfectly safe to consume and provides the "best" taste! Moreover, it is affordable and easily accessible!

**TARGET**

**Demographic Segmentation:** : *PRICE* 18-35 year old, college students/ educated/ working class male and females earning a moderately average income. The energy drink has to be affordable and be within their preferences/lifestyle.

**Geographic Segmentation:** : *PLACE* Convenient stores within a 1km radius of public transport stations; buses and train stations. This indicates accessibility to the working class utilizing public transport which can also indicate that they work close by. The energy drink has to be accessible or within their daily route, in addition, convenient.

**Behavioral Segmentation:** : *PROMOTION* Individuals who possess the same buying/ consumption habits of similar drinks. Using past history of actions allow us to find the white space in our marketing strategy and segmentation to provide a unique and effective message. *Re-fuel your brain, taste the energy* . For example, saying things like "studies prove that the drink can provide the same and even higher effect as coffee/high value caffeinated drinks." would relate to coffee drinkers or those who consume energy/caffeinated drinks. This allows us to target the right people.

(College students and working class individuals are perceived to consume coffee or some sort of caffeine whether; for the effect or social purposes and have some knowledge on the effectiveness of certain drinks.)