## 2.3 - Learn: Positioning Statement



### Learn

You have learned about the three components of Strategy, Segment, Target, and Position. You have also practiced by casually identifying how you might position your energy drink. Now, let's formalize that task with an industry tool, used internally (not externally) called a **positioning statement**. 

In the first video, we will teach you about positioning statements and how to craft one. The second video will provide context for just how important positioning is by sharing a real-life case. 

A small disclaimer: your ability to write an effective **positioning statement** will improve greatly after you have learned more about the 4Ps (Product, Promotion, Place, & Price) which we will cover in Modules 3, 4, 5 & 6. We want you to try it now so you get a taste of this important skill, but know that later, you'll take this to an expert level.



### Watch

### How to Write a Positioning Statement

Target Segment + key benefits +  Frame of reference (prod category) + Evidence

The general format of the positioning statement is as follows:

For (our target market), (our brand) is the only brand among all (products in category) that (unique value claim, that offer that unique value claim) because (reasons to believe, here’s where you list the reasons to believe).

---

Okay, that gives you a taste of the basic concept. These internally used positioning statements help keep everyone in the company focused on the right strategy. While the statements seem pretty simple, it is possible that quite a few of you have not come into contact with this concept before.



### Poll

Before this course, had you ever written a positioning statement?

No

-------------------

### Watch

### How to Write a Positioning Statement Example

What happens when a company starts shifting away from their initial positioning? Here is an example from Black and Decker. When they found themselves drifting off-course, they did a course-correction by **repositioning** themselves. Here's how: 



