## 2.4 - Practice: Positioning Statement

It's the moment of truth. You're going to write a positioning statement! 

We cannot stress this enough: the positioning statement is often perceived as simple to the detriment of businesses (and MBA students) everywhere. Just because it seems simple, it is not always easy to get right. Here's a template for your reference:

For  	target market    [upscale American families     tradesman ]  ,      brand     [Volvo     DeWalt]    is the only brand among all 	products in category    [family automobiles     power tool companies]    that  	unique value claim     [has maximum safety     guarentees no down-time]    because  	reasons to believe     [of our safety crash ratings     we offer 48-hour return on repairs ]  .

### Discuss

Remember the energy drink activity? You now know enough to write a solid positioning statement. Complete the following in the discussion board below:

- Use the template above to write a positioning statement for your energy drink.

- Read 10 of your classmates' new positioning statements. Choose 2 and provide feedback.

- Vote for the best thread or positioning statement you find.

  -----------------------------------------------------------------

  Positioning statement:  The tastiest energy drink ever that enhances your effectivity.

  The target segment for the energy drink will be 20-40 years male with medium income who will use the product at work to remain effective at their work.

  -----------------------------------

  My post:

  For hard working office workers, Fresh energy drink is the only energy drink among all energy drinks that has best taste and is most effective because it has proven to be most effective  in Lab tests and best taste in ratings.

---------------

For creative young minds ,vanilalert energy drink is the only energy drink among other brands that delivers the best, unique and most pleasant taste and excellent effectiveness,because of it's strong vanilla flavor and high caffeine makes it the best choice for those seeking to do more

Wait is over for all you young mothers, Momvigorate is the only brand among all energy drinks that boost your energy level and invigorate your immune system because of it's unique blend of organic ingredients and natural antioxidants with no artificial sweeteners and no harmful preservatives.

For those hard working, busy people who need and energy lift at some point in their day, Nature's Boost is the only brand among all energy drinks that gives you more sustained energy without quickly making you feel worse than before, due to our low caffeine, low sugar and ingredients derived from plant extracts.