## 2.5 - Apply: JC Penney Case

In the first two modules, you’ve learned Customer Analysis and Strategy. Now you're ready to use what you know to work through first real business case!

### READ

### **The JC Penny Crises Case**

The department store JC Penney has been a retail giant and staple of shopping malls for generations. For much of its history, JC Penney was one of the most successful catalogs and department stores in the United States since its founding in 1902. However, by the early 2000's, JC Penney faced a number of serious problems that made the leaders of JC Penney rethink the identity of the brand and the customer. 

The case below is an interactive dive into topics of marketing strategy you have learned about this module. You will be asked to read, consider, analyze, and discuss the decisions made by JC Penney. 

### Explore

Click "start" on the tool below, and allow yourself about 15 minutes to engage in the interactive analysis process.

**NOTE:** in future modules, these case features will only be open to Verified students, so not only will you get the certificate or MicroMasters, you will get cooler stuff along the way!

----------------

### Discuss

Complete the following in the discussion board below:

- Recall the "three biggest mistakes" assigned to you at the end of the interactive case (see the final screen above).

- Write and post no more than 6 sentences on **w****hy you think these were Ron Johnson's three biggest mistakes?**

- Find a classmate's post with an entirely different set of mistakes and respond with your thoughts on their analysis, noting similarities and differences in your conclusions.

- Upvote the post you believe makes the most convincing argument for why Ron Johnson's plan failed.

  -----------------

  My  argument:

  Ron's plan failed by alienating customer not testing the prices and layout, and not successfully mixing new and old

  Post:

  JCP made too many changes on pricing,store layout,target segmentation etc in a short time and hence wasn't able to clearly articulate key value proposition to the new target segment while alienating old customers. The new segmentation and positioning require culture shift at JCP and from evidence it seems there wasn't much focus laid on this aspect.

-------------

After all was said and done...

- Did JC Penney recover?
- What happened after Ron Johnson stepped down as CEO?
- Regardless of Johnson's mistakes, JC Penney still needed to make changes. What did it do next and how?

**Verify** now to learn the answers to these questions, see what JC Penney did after Johnson's departure according to the theories laid out in this course, and hear analysis on how JC Penney is doing today.

**Or** use this time to do some research on JC Penney's performance in the past few decades and what choices they made to improve their situation

