# 1.2- Learn Consumer Behavior

### Watch

Why do people choose to buy one product over another? While **customers** make their buying choices for a variety of reasons, they generally all fall into one of three categories: **utilitarian**, **hedonic**, and **low involvement**. Watch the video below to learn more.

VIDEO: Consumer Behavior-en.txt



### **Utilitarian/High Involvement**

You’re about to start an online MBA program, and the old laptop you’ve had since the early days of undergrad just won’t cut it anymore. It’s time for a new computer. This gap in your needs is triggering your decision process. So, how do you decide what laptop to purchase? With an active search—and a lot of research.

You compare alternatives, brands, and features like memory, if there’s a CD drive, RAM, battery life, weight, size, and so on. You might even have strong brand loyalty when buying a new laptop because you’ve been happy with a certain brand’s performance in the past and trust it. In this case, you might choose a more expensive laptop, showing how price can be a trade-off variable. Here, you’re “buying the best” based on information. These factors that weigh into your decision show how there are variations in consumer choice. What you deem important for your laptop may not be what someone else values, or you might be more willing to pay a higher price than your friend. Ultimately, your choice is based on trade-offs of competing alternatives.

This transitions into the theory of use aspect of the consumer behavior process. Once you buy the laptop, its performance will have many consequences. How satisfied you are with it depends on its actual performance versus how you expect the alternatives to work. If you’re very happy with the laptop—and brand as a whole—you’re more likely to have stronger brand loyalty, and will spread positive feedback by word-of-mouth. So, you might be sitting in the library with your friend as you discuss your laptop and may even recommend that they get it too.

This utilitarian model follows a sequence of know-feel-do. You recognize your need and researched alternatives until you finally bought the particular model that made the most sense for you.

So, how does this impact marketing management if you were the one selling the laptop? Your keys to the buying process are the laptop’s performance and the provision of information you provide to the consumer. The more they know, the more comfortable and informed their decision will be. Therefore, the biggest threat in the buying process is a better performing alternative from your competition.

## Know --> Feel --> do

### You recognize your need and research alternatives until you finally bought the particular model that made the most sense for you

----------------------------------

### **Low Involvement**



You’ve just realized you’re out of chewing gum. You run into the nearest convenience store and barely think before you pick up your usual choice.

This is a low involvement decision. You identify your need and act on it, following the know-do-feel decision sequence. The trigger for this process is stock depletion, and you follow a passive search to evaluate the alternatives. You do not have to research or intensely compare the alternatives. You make your choice because you already know what you like and “buy the familiar” based on what choices are available to you at the time, or what brands and flavors of gum are at the counter. Low involvement decisions also often follow a “buy the cheapest” rule, and price can be a deciding factor. You’d rather spend $1 on gum than $3.

Your usage experience of the gum is straightforward as well. Your brand loyalty relies on habit and inertia—why switch from the gum brand you’ve always liked in the past? Satisfaction relies on the absence of negatives; there’s not much that can go wrong when buying chewing gum. Any choice you make is going to fulfill your need. This choice decision also inherently has a predisposition to rebuy. When you run out of chewing gum, you will likely rebuy right away—sticking to your usual choice if available.

How does this low involvement behavior process influence marketing? The keys to the buying process are the saliency of the brand and insured product availability. The threats to this process are interruptions in the purchase cycle.

## Know--> do --> feel

### You identify your need and act on it



---------------------

### **Hedonic/Self-Expressive**

Imagine you’re walking through the mall and you see a pair of boots in a store window. You know you have to have them: they’re stylish and you even recognize the brand! You figure you might as well get them now before you lose out on the opportunity. This is a hedonic behavior process, following your wants rather than needs.

In this situation, your consumer choice follows a feel-then-do process. You want the shoes, so you buy them, driven by an impulsive trigger. You were not expecting to buy them; you just happened to see them in a store window. Here, the price is not a primary concern, even though the boots are on sale. Rather, it helps you rationalize your impulsive choice to “buy what I like.”

The purchasing of these boots relied on brand image. Your loyalty to the brand is based on **“affective commitment.”** So, are you happy with the shoes? Do you like them? Further, how satisfied you are with your purchase follows how well the brand image portrayed matched your actual experience with the boots. For example, if the brand image was high quality, and the boots fall apart in the first week of wearing them, you would be unhappy with your purchase and you probably wouldn’t buy this brand again.

Finally, what are the marketing considerations of the hedonic consumer behavior process? The buying process relies on a clear articulation of the brand image. So, when you saw the boots in the store window, the brand’s image reflected a stylish and high-quality product. Therefore, the threat to the buying process would be a change in the brand image.  As a marketing manager, you must ensure that the brand image stays strong and is communicated to consumers.

## feel-then-do

###  following your wants rather than needs

--------------------

Answer the following questions below to check your understanding of the lecture and reading content.

### Question 1 of 6

What is the first stage of the decision-making process or customer journey?

Information search

Evaluation of alternatives

--> Need recognition

### Question 2 of 6

James notices a brownie in the window of a bakery and decides to go in and purchase one.

What decision making process has he gone through?

Utilitarian Process

Low-Involvement Process

-->Hedonic Process

### Question 3 of 6

Emma’s smartphone has a cracked screen and can’t download the latest apps. After a few days of comparing models and watching prices she buys the latest iPhone.

What decision making process has she gone through?

-->Utilitarian Process

Low-Involvement Process

Hedonic Process

### Question 4 of 6

While waiting in line at the grocery store, Ben notices a bin of flavored chapsticks. He realizes his lips are a bit chapped and decides to purchase a brand he is familiar with.

What decision making process has he gone through?

Utilitarian Process

-->Low-Involvement Process

Hedonic Process

### Question 5 of 6

During the _____________________ stage consumers typically reduce the set of alternatives they seriously consider down to three or four.

information search

-->evaluation

need recognition

### Question 6 of 6

All else being equal, which purchase would have the highest amount of information search? (There is more than one correct answer)



a low-risk purchase

-->a high-risk purchase

a purchase involving a young low-income man

-->a purchase involving a older well-educated woman