## 4.3 - Practice: Promotion and Branding

### Reflect

As we discussed in the lecture on branding, the split between the right and left side of the pyramid represents the "heart" and the "head" of the customer's reaction to and relationship with the brand. In other words, how the customer emotionally "feels" and objectively "thinks" about the brand.

As discussed in the branding lecture, brand management is not solely under the control of the firm.  Customers’ experiences with products and conversations with other customers shape their perceptions of a firm’s brand.



### Explore

When it comes to purchasing an everyday item, like a new pair of athletic shoes, what brand do you trust? Maybe Adidas or Nike? Share in the activity below. If you have honestly never thought about the brand when browsing for your shoes, enter "No brand" in the text entry box. 

--> Nike got 31% and most responses (shown as word cloud)



### Reflect

Think about a product that you have a strong objective opinion about (quality, price, reliability, etc), what is your opinion based on? Experiences with the product? Promotional campaigns? Loyalty or trust in the brand? 

Are your opinions primarily driven by objective elements (the “head” side of the pyramid)?  Or the emotional side of branding (the “heart” side of the pyramid)? 



### Discuss

Complete the following in the discussion board below.

- Post a short description of a product you have a strong positive opinion about and explain why.
- Respond to your classmates' posts about their products, do their opinions represents the "heart" and the "head" side of the pyramid?
- Vote for the posts that best explain why your classmate has such a positive opinion their product

My reponse:

I have strong positive opinion about BMW, The opinion is shaped based on "heart" as well as "head" side of pyramid. The product is comfortable to drive, is durable and performance is as advertised. The exteriors and interiors give it a premium look. It has a long history of producing great vehicles and has a component of social status 

