## 4.4 - Apply: IBM Case

### Apply

Now that we have looked at brand building in general, let's dive deeper by analyzing one of the most famous and profitable brands of both the 20th and 21st century: IBM.

### Read

### **Background on IBM**

IBM is a global brand that has stood for many things since its establishment, originally as the [Computing-Tabulating-Recording Company](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computing-Tabulating-Recording_Company) in 1911.  For many years, IBM was known as “Big Blue” due to its size and its dominance of enterprise computing (the only computing market that existed) for much of the 20th century. 

IBM is primarily a “business to business” (B2B) company, with its sales being almost exclusively driven by purchases from other companies, governments, and nonprofits.  (Although IBM launched its standard-setting personal computer in 1981, it exited the personal computer market in the mid-1990s.)  B2B companies rely on many of the same branding strategies as consumer brands do.  One might think that B2B decisions are made on only rational, analytical bases, but research has shown that the emotional aspect of brands can also have a strong impact on B2B purchases.  Ultimately, even in a B2B context where the “buyer” is part of a decision-making unit, every person who has input into the decision is a human being with both rational and emotional elements playing a role in brand choice.    

From the mid-1980s through the 1990s, IBM lost market share to more nimble competitors as IBM failed to respond quickly enough to a shift away from the data center toward distributed computing.  During the technology boom of the 1990s, IBM was often seen as the stodgy old uncle next to more exciting, fresher firms like Microsoft, Apple, Sun Microsystems, and Dell.  This was the case despite the fact that at that time, and in the 25 years since, IBM has led all firms in terms of the number of US patents awarded.[[1\]](file:///C:/Users/shannonj/Downloads/IBM stories.docx#_ftn1)

In the past decade, IBM has executed a series of campaigns to refresh its brand.  IBM has moved away from its former stilted image to build a brand that emphasizes not just its technological expertise, but also the benefits its customers and the world can realize through that expertise.  IBM has updated its image and presents itself as one of the more progressive, hip, and cutting-edge firms on the planet today while holding on to its spot as one of the world’s most valuable brands on the planet.[[2\]](file:///C:/Users/shannonj/Downloads/IBM stories.docx#_ftn2)

[[1\]](file:///C:/Users/shannonj/Downloads/IBM stories.docx#_ftnref1)“IBM Led on Patents in 2017, Facebook Broke into Top 50 for the First Time,” *TechCrunch* (blog), accessed July 10, 2018,[ ](http://social.techcrunch.com/2018/01/09/ibm-led-on-patents-in-2017-facebook-broke-into-top-50-for-the-first-time/)http://social.techcrunch.com/2018/01/09/ibm-led-on-patents-in-2017-facebook-broke-into-top-50-for-the-first-time/.

[[2\]](file:///C:/Users/shannonj/Downloads/IBM stories.docx#_ftnref2)“2017 BrandZ Top 100 Global Brands,” Millward Brown, accessed July 10, 2018,[ ](http://www.millwardbrown.com/brandz/top-global-brands/2017/business-to-business)http://www.millwardbrown.com/brandz/top-global-brands/2017/business-to-business.

### **Let’s look at how it did this:**

### **We’ll start with the Smarter Planet campaign.**

On September 10, 2008, IBM Chairman and CEO Sam Palmisano spoke at the Council of Foreign Relations introducing IBM’s new goal, and world dream, to create a smarter planet.  Through what the company refers to as the three I’s, instrumentation, interconnectedness, and intelligence, "It showed a way for industries, infrastructures, processes, cities and entire societies to be more productive, efficient and responsive.” 

IBM was collecting data and using that data in the development of analytics and algorithms to help us better understand our planet, how we live, and how they can make our lives more efficient.  IBM challenged the world to come up with, “innovative ideas such as traveler-centric transportation, consumer-centric electric power, and intelligent systems for managing healthcare, water, public safety, and food.”[1]

How did IBM execute on this branding initiative?  In 2008, IBM saw an opportunity to put its technology to use, solving problems facing the world at that time; many of those problems occurring as a result of the global financial crisis.  It conducted research and found that many problems were only going to be solved as a result of “public-private partnerships” or collaboration between governments and private industry.  A study IBM conducted with the Obama administration showed that infrastructure investments to upgrade the technology associated with building a smart grid, healthcare IT, and broadband could result in more than 900,000 jobs in the US over five years.[[2\]](file:///C:/Users/shannonj/Downloads/IBM stories.docx#_ftn2)

Due to its long-standing technological expertise, IBM was able to claim a credible position for itself as the partner of choice for businesses and governments addressing these problems.  Next, it needed to build and reinvigorate the external facing side of that positioning -- the part that would live in the customer’s mind: The IBM brand. 

[[1\]](file:///C:/Users/shannonj/Downloads/IBM stories.docx#_ftnref1) “IBM100 - Smarter Planet,” CTB14, March 7, 2012,[ ](http://www.ibm.com/ibm/history/ibm100/us/en/icons/smarterplanet/)http://www.ibm.com/ibm/history/ibm100/us/en/icons/smarterplanet/.

[[2\]](file:///C:/Users/shannonj/Downloads/IBM stories.docx#_ftnref2) March 12 and 2010, “Corporate Branding Campaign of the Year 2010,” accessed July 10, 2018,[ ](https://www.prweek.com/article/1268368/corporate-branding-campaign-year-2010)https://www.prweek.com/article/1268368/corporate-branding-campaign-year-2010.

**What promotional tactics did IBM use to accomplish this?**  **What part of the brand pyramid did each tactic address?**

IBM devised a campaign made up of public relations, social media, advertisements (both TV and print), and events to build its brand

public relationship: Awareness

Social media: Performance, Feeling, Judgement,Imagery

advertisement: Performance, feeling,imagery