## 4.6 - Apply: IBM Case

### Watch

### **Social Media**

Twitter was used widely in the Smarter Planet campaign but those tweets are no longer available publicly.  Let’s look at how IBM used YouTube, another social media outlet, in the campaign.  

This first video, because it’s a bit longer than an average commercial, IBM has the opportunity to explain the “Smarter Planet” campaign in more depth.

### **Watch:** [IBM New Intelligence toward a Smarter Planet](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9wfZH6ZWxmk)

### Read

Again, as we saw above, the potential outcomes of building a smarter planet are substantial and aspirational.  And with the additional time available through this medium, IBM was able to clearly explain how it was able to bring about those solutions.  So again, we see IBM operating at the second and third levels of Keller’s brand pyramid -- being explicit about what IBM is capable of (what it does) and the feelings that engaging in these solutions can generate.

### Watch

This second video is slightly longer and plays more heavily on the emotions.  It’s the story of how IBM technology can be used to help the elderly in Italy stay independent in their own homes while reducing the worry that their families face from them living alone. The video also explains how this technology will reduce the money that cities will ultimately have to spend to build housing and provide services for their elderly residents. 

### **Watch:** [Solutions for An Aging Population](https://youtu.be/kDvW8R4BL0I)

This longer video works at all levels of the pyramid. 

It creates awareness for the needs technology can satisfy, demonstrating solutions that many people may not be familiar with.  The video demonstrates IBM operating in an area where it’s likely many watchers would not have pictured the firm: Not in a data center, but in someone’s home, satisfying Zita’s need for independence (“the most beautiful thing in the world”) and her daughter’s need for peace of mind. 

It introduces new usage situations and connects IBM’s long history of operating in social services with the Smarter Planet campaign. The video visually connects this story with Italian heritage (at 2:25) and the style and design (“as small a system as possible”) of the system. 

The video is rich in emotions both at the start and end, opening and closing with the concept of “richness” brought about by independence:  “This is living.  This is richness.”  Engagement and community are the outcomes Zita achieves by staying in her home with the help of IBM’s Smarter Planet efforts.

### **Events** 

Throughout 2009, IBM held nearly 100 Smarter Cities Forums around the world.  Take a few minutes to look at this description of IBM’s Smarter Cities campaign:

### **Read**: [Smarter Cities Campaign](https://www.ibm.com/smarterplanet/us/en/smarter_cities/overview/)

Below is a description of a forum held in Baltimore.  This gives you a sense of the conversation IBM was attempting to stimulate:

"Baltimore Smarter Cities Forum will create a peer-to-peer exchange for mayors, civic leaders, and businesses to engage with like-minded thinkers and shape the blueprints for smarter cities. We will discuss new approaches to regional partnership, identify roadblocks, evaluate frameworks for investment and review the tools and technologies that are making our urbanizing planet more instrumented, more interconnected and more intelligent. As leaders, we all have a vital stake in ensuring that our cities become more resilient, more sustainable and more secure. Indeed, the health of our planet and of society depends on it. We are pleased you will be joining us to start shaping that future."

“IBM to Host Baltimore Smarter Cities Forum,” Greater Baltimore Regional Business Leaders | GBC, September 23, 2009,[ ](https://gbc.org/ibm-to-host-baltimore-smarter-cities-forum/)https://gbc.org/ibm-to-host-baltimore-smarter-cities-forum/.

### Read and Watch

### **BM Creates a Game: CityOne**

Finally, a unique branding activity:  IBM released a “massively multiplayer online game” called “CityOne.” In this game, players implement technological solutions to the problems a city faces including energy, water, retail, and banking.[[1\]](file:///C:/Users/shannonj/Downloads/IBM stories.docx#_ftn1) 

Take a look at the video that gives an overview of the game a read a review from a “serious games” review board: 

### **Watch:** [IBM's City Building Game, CityOne!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QtSL3YeVWdk)

From the review board:

“In addition to being an attention-grabber, the game explains where a company’s products and services fit into the machinery of the real world. Research consistently indicates that in B2B marketing, business buyers are increasingly self-reliant in their evaluation and purchase of a technology. They are not waiting for a salesperson to come to them. Playing **IBM CityOne** creates situations in which IBM’s potential role is obvious, making it easier for customers to understand the company as a major force multiplier.”[[2\]](file:///C:/Users/shannonj/Downloads/IBM stories.docx#_ftn2)

[[1\]](file:///C:/Users/shannonj/Downloads/IBM stories.docx#_ftnref1) “IBM Launches First Smarter Planet Game to Tackle City Challenges,” CTB10, October 4, 2010,[ ](https://www-03.ibm.com/press/us/en/pressrelease/32603.wss)https://www-03.ibm.com/press/us/en/pressrelease/32603.wss.

[[2\]](file:///C:/Users/shannonj/Downloads/IBM stories.docx#_ftnref2) Sarah Grant, “IBM CityOne,” *Serious Games At Work* (blog), November 5, 2012,[ ](http://www.seriousgamesatwork.org/ibm-cityone/)http://www.seriousgamesatwork.org/ibm-cityone/.

### Discuss

Complete the following in the discussion board below:

- Share what you think the purpose of such events and games were.
- Determine whether you think they were brand building exercises, opportunities to sell IBM products/services, or information-gathering exercises. Support your answer with evidence from the reading.
- Find a post with a differing opinion and comment why you disagree.

My post:

IBM has created the Smart campaign with multiple target audience in mind. They use the events to connect to B2B audiences. However, their products (smart city,smart grid etc) are going to have direct impact on people's lives (Second level, performance). Games will help educate and influence general public opinion (3rd feelings and fourth level resonance) and brings awareness and perception of IBM as a socially responsible  brand.

