## 4.7 - Apply: IBM Case

### Read

### **The Results**

This is a rather long list of branding activities, but for a campaign that lasted a decade, it’s by no means exhaustive. 

First, was it successful?

Yes, it was a huge success!

The Smarter Planet campaign received many awards and much praise for its innovative concept, pushing IBM out of their old image as solely a big brand in IT.  Expanding out of the realm of IT and into this global conversation brought in a new, diversified audience and with that, new clients.  This campaign was the focus of Sam Palmisano’s speech to the Council on Foreign Relations and of the 28-week Op-Ed course that focused on “newsy themes, such as a reduction in pollution through a traffic-congestion effort in Stockholm.”

Countries had different teams that focused on the major issues of their region – be it pollution, unemployment, or poor care for the elderly.  These teams interacted with policymakers and designed ads that would truly speak to the goals of the Smarter Planet vision.

The campaign was extremely successful “generating 6,022 stories” and creating videos that “received more than 252,000 hits.[[1\]](file:///C:/Users/shannonj/Downloads/IBM stories.docx#_ftn1)

Can we dig a bit deeper to explore how and why the Smarter Planet achieved the outcomes it did?  Let’s work our way up from the bottom of the pyramid.  IBM had nearly complete awareness within its target market. However, it wanted that market to be fully aware of the breadth of needs IBM could satisfy.  This was done by placing its technology in the midst of everyday, complex problems, or what we sometimes call “messy, real-world problems.”  From a performance perspective, IBM showed how the data to solve these problems are almost inherent in the problems themselves.  For example, too many commuters is a problem for many cities. But seeing each commuter, each traffic light, and each traffic camera as a data point can turn the problem itself into the solution, as long as you have the right partner with the right data analytics expertise. IBM presents itself as that solution. The elements of the campaign, the video about aging members of a community set in Italy, extend the usage situations in which we picture IBM.  IBM’s hardware may exist in data centers, but the benefits of those data centers are in your home and the homes of those you care for.

IBM has a long history of strong performance. But as pointed out in the introduction of this case, while its performance had maintained, its brand had deteriorated.  The Smarter Planet campaign positioned IBM as the only provider sophisticated enough to engage with businesses and governments to tackle the complex problems facing the planet in the midst of the Great Recession. To emphasize this, the ads deals almost exclusively with the most complex issues the world was facing at that time: energy, healthcare, banking, and the global food supply. The tone of each ad is confident in its ability to address the problem and aspirational in the benefits that together IBM and its target market could achieve. 

Finally, that very notion of aspiration, hope and a sense that the world needed to get “back on track” reflects questions that were being asked, worldwide and in the United States at that time.  Hope is an underlying tone -- that the world *can* solve these messy real-world problems - just as it was the very explicit tagline of Barack Obama’s first run for the US Presidency.  Messages of hope, community and engagement place several of these pieces at the top of Keller’s brand pyramid.            

[[1\]](file:///C:/Users/shannonj/Downloads/IBM stories.docx#_ftnref1) March 12 and 2010, “Corporate Branding Campaign of the Year 2010,” accessed July 10, 2018,[ ](https://www.prweek.com/article/1268368/corporate-branding-campaign-year-2010)https://www.prweek.com/article/1268368/corporate-branding-campaign-year-2010.

### **IBM's new campaign, “Let’s put smart to work.”**

Now we’re going to have you take a look at IBM’s latest move on the branding front and discuss it with your classmates.  The follow-on campaign is called “Let’s put smart to work.”  To get a general overview of the campaign, take a look at IBM’s website and watch the “Anthem” video.

### **Read & Watch:** [Let’s put smart to work](https://www.ibm.com/thought-leadership/smart/)

### Research

Now that you understand the basics of the campaign, pick an element to research in more depth.  

You can choose a tweet, a print ad, a video (whether its a television commercial or something targeting social media), an event or a public relations activity.



On the discussion board below, you’ll answer the following questions about an element of the “Let’s Put Smart to Work” campaign that you select.

As you answer the questions in the discussion board below, consider IBM’s new branding campaign overall, compared to Smarter Planet.

### Discuss

Complete the following in the discussion board below:

- Post a link to the element you found or post a screenshot here of what you’ve found.
- Describe it.  Tell us what it is (Tweet?  YouTube video? TV ad? Magazine ad?), what type of promotional tactic this represents (PR?  Advertisement? Social media? etc.) and where you found it.
- Tell us what you think IBM’s objective was in using this particular promotional tactic.  
- - - What industries might IBM be targeting with this promotional effort?  
    - What functional benefits is IBM selling to that target market?

- Click through a few of your classmate's posts and comment what level of the brand pyramid their campaign element addresses?  Is it more about what the brand DOES (left side of the pyramid?) or is it more about what the brand IS (right side of the pyramid)?  
- Comment how much emotion is used in the examples your classmates shared? If you see emotional elements, theorize as to why they would be used in this promotional element?
- Vote for comments that you agree with.

My post:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vUyuTCCzRU0&list=PLaFe0BJiho2q7Cd-jBFmMByWHOo2MRtmU

This is a youtube video that represents advertisement. I found it using search engine.

This IBM ad is targeting government departments. It is selling benefits of data analytics across  different government departments to get better picture of needs of people they serve and be efficient at it. IBM's objective in this ad is to show empathy to people with housing needs, engement with community and superiority of their solution. This spot focuses on housing crisis faced in sonoma county and proposes a technology assisted solution that will impact lives of people. The emotional connect with solution providers and consumers is established in this ad. second,third level Performance, feelings and fourth resonance (community) of branding are used



We need to look after everyone in our community . We can bring data from multiple deptt that gives us a fullerview of people we serve