## 7.1 - Learn: Customer Relationships and Loyalty

### Read

The central idea of keeping a customer-centered approach or customer-centricity should filter through all levels of analysis, strategy, and action. There are many benefits that arise from this approach, namely:

- - Enhanced value for customers. 
  - Increased customer loyalty resulting in a potential increase in value for a company.

This unit, illustrating types of loyalty, and exploring the Spotify Family Plan case, all fall neatly under this umbrella and should help you solidify the importance of this way of thinking.  

We will look at things that may influence loyalty (like customer satisfaction) and consider the question, "when does increased customer loyalty mean increased profits?"

Watch the video below that lays out a model for thinking about the process of building long-term value for our customers and ultimately for a firm. If implemented properly, this type of model should lead to increased customer satisfaction, attitudinal loyalty, behavioral loyalty, and ultimately greater long-term profits. 

### Watch

Watch the 6.5-minute video below which will define types of customer loyalty and talk about ways to enhance it. 

### Lecture - Customer Relationships and Loyalty

VIDEO



### Question 1 of 5



Higher levels of customer loyalty should lead to higher levels of ________________

Satisfaction

Attitudinal loyalty

**Profit**

Sales

### Question 2 of 5

Loyalty as observed through the actions of the customers is called:

**Behavioural loyalty**

Attitudinal loyalty

### Question 3 of 5

Loyalty that is measured through a series of questions asked to a customer is called:

Behavioural loyalty

**Attitudinal loyalty**



### Question 4 of 5

Firms with the largest market shares usually __________ the highest customer satisfaction.

**Do not have**

Have

Never have

Always have

## Reflect

Is there a brand or company that you are attitudinally or behaviorally loyal to regardless of the primary value of the product or service that they provide?

For example, bonus cards, reward points, or outstanding customer service.

## Post

1. In this discussion board, post the name and a brief description of the company (or brand) that you remain loyal to regardless of the actual product or service this brand provides. 
2. Would you classify your loyalty as behavioral or attitudinal? 
3. In your post, describe what tactics this company/brand uses to increase loyalty.
4. Read through some of your peers' posts and like five that resonate with you or that you have experienced. 

My Post:

I am loyal to Southwest airlines, Southwest has great connections around West coast of US where I lived. The loyalty is behavioral as I prefer to use their services even though other airlines have similar connections. Their network is very good, flights are generally on time. They send drinks voucher from time to time and have a good loyalty program.

## Read

As you read the article linked below, think about your experiences as a consumer. Are there experiences you have had that are positive or negative and have affected your loyalty? 

### **Read:** [Unlock the Mysteries of Your Customer Relationships](https://hbr.org/2014/07/unlock-the-mysteries-of-your-customer-relationships)



## reflect

Take a few minutes to recall and digest some of the information you have read. Think about these questions: 

1. There were several descriptions of customers who felt disillusioned by services or brands that they utilized. What did their experiences have in common? What could have been handled differently? 
2. The article suggests that companies reorganize their marketing around relationships. What do you think they mean by that? 

