## 7.2 - Learn: Customer Lifetime Value

When you apply a customer-centered approach to your marketing, you not only focus on customer acquisition but customer retention as well. In this section, you will explore how to measure the impact of building customer relationships and increasing customer retention.

### **WATCH**

Watch the eight-minute video below to learn how to find and calculate customer lifetime value.

### Lecture - Customer Lifetime Value

VIDEO

geometric series sum for n instances in the series: 
$$
S=a(1-r^n)/(1-r)
$$
when n is infinite
$$
S=a/(1-r)
$$
m=margin on revenue (a in formula) (m=Revenue -cost)

r=retention rate

i=cost of capital

A=acquisition cost (one time at the beginning)

after one year with 0.8 retention rate and .1 cost of capital (in %, interest rate/discount rate etc..), margin value is: mr/(1+i) and so on every year forming a geometric series

r in formula=r/(1+i)

Customer Lifetime value=Sum of NetPresentValue margins-Acquistion cost

Sum of NPV margins=
$$
NPV margin=m/(1- r/(1+i))
$$

$$
NPV margin=m*(1+i)/(1+i-r)
$$



Margin multiple
$$
MM=(1+i)/(1+i-r)
$$


Customer Life time value=
$$
CLTV=m*((1+i)/(1+i-r)) -A
$$


### **REFLECT**

Now that you have had an introduction to customer lifetime value, you can see from the demonstration in the video just how valuable an ongoing positive relationship with a customer can be. If you manage the customer relationship properly, you can extend the longevity of the relationship and potentially increase lifetime value. 

Explore this more by reading the scenario below and brainstorming ideas for how to increase the longevity of a customer relationship. 

### **READ **



### **Silver Muscles Gym Case** 

**Background**

You have recently been hired as the manager at Silver Muscles Gym. There have been a few managers in the last few years, and the company does not have a good track record for repeat membership despite surveys showing that most members report having a positive experience. 

**Your Role**

On your first day of work, you are brought to a meeting. The CEO asks you to work with both the sales and marketing teams in order to increase sales to previous customers because the company is not seeing a great deal of repeat business. You know that there are two general groups of members. The first are committed and work out several times a week, and the second join and then stop attending the gym after a short period of time. How can you establish and continue the customer relationship over a period of time and increase repeat sales for the company? 

### **POST**



Complete the following in the discussion board below:

- Create a list of at least three ways you can establish an ongoing relationship with a customer who only joins and attends for a short period of time.
- Once you have posted, read some of your classmates posts and vote for those that resonate with you. 

My post:

1. Conduct a survey to identify most common reasons member do not repeat business with us and devise features/products that takes care of some of their distractions
2. Develop a framework/process to understand individual members goals, then a personalized plan and regular followup (face 2 face or via digital medium)
3. Marketing campaign targeted at existing customer base