## 6.2 - Learn: Introduction to Total Economic Value

### Read

On the previous pages, we covered several pricing strategies: **Penetration pricing, Skimming, and Bundling**. However, we still haven’t done a deep dive into how you set your initial price as a start point for those strategies. We’ll do that now.

You may be wondering why we haven't discussed another, simpler way of pricing: Setting your price at some fixed percentage above your cost to manufacture a good or provide a service. To put it simply, we haven’t covered that approach because that is rarely the best way to set your price.

As the first video in this module says, we want to set our prices based on the value we create for our customers, not based on our costs. However, many firms are less enlightened and, because it’s simpler, they base their price on their costs. Further, it’s not uncommon to find proponents of this process among those with technical backgrounds. Watch the lecture below and learn the 4 big reasons cost-plus-pricing is a bad idea.

### Lecture - Cost-Plus Pricing: Just Say “No.”

VIDEO
$$
Profits=(UnitPrice-COGS)*Unit Sales Volume
$$

$$
Cost-PlusPrice method=COGS/(1-desired margin \%)
$$

$$
COGS=(fixed cost/volume)+VC
$$

$$

Volume=f(value,price)
$$



#### Four reasons why cost plus pricing doesn't work.

1. Reason one, to set a cost plus price, you have to predict volume.But volume and price are intertwined. There are too many unknowns to solve the system of equations.Forcing you to make assumptions about volume and price.

2. Reason two, if demand goes up, a cost plus price will drive the price continually down,

   which is the exact opposite what you would do if demand was greater than you expected.

3. Reason three, if demand goes down, the price will continually go up.Also counter intuitive.

4. Reason 4, if you invest to reduce your fixed cost, or your variable cost, a cost plus pricing

   strategy will by definition pass all the savings to the customer rather than increase your

   margin.

   What’s a better way to price?

   We’ll talk about that in the next video.

### Watch

So what is a better way to price? Price on value. When we talk about value pricing, we are talking about pricing our product based on the value it creates for our customers. In order to figure out what that value is, we calculate the total economic value. Watch the Total Economic Value video to get an overview of the concept. 

### Lecture - Introduction to Total Economic Value

VIDEO

**Value pricing means that we price our product based on the value it creates for our customers,**

This value is called the total economic value, or the objective value, and it provides a ceiling for the price we’ll set.

To calculate this value (TEV), we need to know three things.

1. Number one, the reference price.What’s the price of what the customer would buy if he didn’t purchase our product?

2. Number two, how is our product better than the alternative, our positive differentiation?

3. And number three, how is our product worse than the reference product, our negative differentiation?

   While it’s only three numbers, it will take a great deal of work to get the data and market

   insight to calculate this total economic value or TEV.