## 5.3 - Apply: Channels Simulator

### Read

The place where you sell your product has a significant effect on not just your profit margins, but whether or not your target segment will find and be interested in purchasing your product. Moreover, where you sell your product will affect the perception of your brand and your customer’s perception of your product. Designing a product for the mass market but only making it available in a few locations isn’t a coherent strategy and doesn’t make much sense. Likewise, designing exclusive or very narrow channels may make your product seem more valuable, but it also makes it much harder for customers to find. In other words, the channel design has to be aligned with your target market, your position, your brand and with the other three P's.



Take for example what happens when high-end products are sold at big box stores. The high-low collaborations often found on Target's shelves are extremely influential, but they can create challenges for the high-end brands selling their products through Target. When brands like Hunter are found in a store for a fraction of their normal price, customers tend to question why they're so much cheaper than what they've paid in the past. If a customer has been buying Hunter boots for over $100 and suddenly sees them in Target for $40, they may feel as if they’ve been cheated in the past, or they may feel that quality of the boots has dropped. One of the perks of buying high-end products is the feeling that they are special, an investment in higher-than-average quality that not everyone has -- but this feeling goes away when the high-end product is sold at big box stores at such a large discount.

Bhattarai, Abha. "Upscale, Downscale: Target Draws Customers with Collaborations with High-end Brands." April 13, 2018. Accessed July 26, 2018. https://www.washingtonpost.com/business/economy/upscale-downscale-target-draws-customers-with-collaborations-with-high-end-brands/2018/04/13/5dd25888-3cd2-11e8-a7d1-e4efec6389f0_story.html?utm_term=.fadf31c3dd46.

### Explore

We want to give you an opportunity to apply the strategies and tactics you have already learned in conjunction with what we learned about channels. Therefore, we have created a simulator in which you will market a SmartWatch. There is no one right way to play through the simulator, but we have created a simple scoring system to track the decisions you make.



You can do the simulator as many times as you want, but keep in mind that afterward you will be asked to do a write up of your experiences and an analysis of what you learned. Therefore, it will be important to remember the choices you made in one of your successful walkthroughs.

eHealth:

target segment: Secure comfort seeker(attributes of target segment customer) fashionable,reliable and easy to use

features: Beautiful (fashoinable),unbreakable(reliable),fashionable(fashionable),water proof(reliable)



Channel options: 

Every mart: cheapest price/untrained sales people, low margin

Step it up: focus on health and sports benefits to sell products,sales people with knowledge and engagement with the target segment, fit customers, looking for product to improve athletic abilities

Electric avenue: specializes in all kind of electronics and carry wide variety of brands. standard issue prods rather than high tech. salespeople have some general knowledge but not specialists. customers dont know much about electronics but they know enough to have some pref. need basic functionality

Legen: high end products, focus on bldg their brand, expensive. sales people well versed in products they carry.customers well off,looking for best products, occasional customers to treat themselves or buy oneoff things they have been saving for.

ehealth.com: lots of effort to advertise and manage sales process. high profit margin and creative control on how you present your brand to customers.

rainforest.com: large variety of brands and prods, list each product side by side allowing customers to compare,no physical sales people. broad customer base. Customer acts as sales person by way of recommending and learning about products by themselves

For secure comfort seekers, eHealth is the only brand among all smart watches that offers most durable and beautiful smartwatch because our product is made from best quality material and designed by world renowned designers.

Step it up: 10k coupon to customer, 10k discount to retailer, 10k training sales people 10k coupon

rainforest.com: 20k coupon, 20k discount, 10k



my answers

**What was your SmartWatch brand name?**  

eHealth

**Which target segment did you choose?**  

Secure comfort seekers

**Why did you choose that target? ** 

As a startup focus on a demograhics that have spending power and simple buying decision process

**How would you describe this segment in your own words? ** 

Fashionable, looking for reliable and easy to use product

**Which features did you choose for your SmartWatch?** 

Beautiful,unbreakable,fashionable,water-proof

**Why did you choose each feature for your target segment?  Can you connect each
feature to a benefits that was sought by your target segment?**

Beautiful: Fashionable

Unbreakable: reliable

waterproof: reliable

**What was your positioning statement?** 

For secure comfort seekers, eHealth is the only brand among all smart watches that offers most durable and beautiful smartwatch because our product is made from best quality material and designed by world renowned designers.

**Why did you choose those “benefits”?  Are they the benefits most sought-after
by your target segment?  Are your “reasons” credible?  Why?** 

Secure comfort seeker demographics are looking for products that are fashionable, not overly complex to use and are durable. Based on this description of the target segment the benefits were chosen.

**Which two channels did you choose?** 

Step it up and rainforest.com

**Describe these channels in your own words.**

Step it up:  They focus on products with health and sports benefits. Their sales people have product knowledge and engage well with the customers fit customers. Their customers are looking for product to improve athletic abilities

rainforest.com: Have selection of large variety of brands and products. They list each product side by side allowing customers to compare, there are no physical sales people. They have broad customer base.



**For your first channel, did you invest more in push or pull? And why?** 

Push, as sales people are influencers in customers decision making

**For your second channel, did you invest more in push or pull? And why?** 

Pull, as there are no sales people, and have to compete with other brands on side by side comparison.

**Reflect on what you noticed about your thought process as you were making these decisions. Write about what areas were difficult to reason through and what type of questions you were asking yourself. ** 

Mapping target segment and available product features was slightly challenging. 

**What are your biggest takeaways from this assignment?**

Creating a great product is not enough, identifying target audience, focusing on their need and placing the product at right buying stage and channel is of great improtance in success of a product

--------------

- Post the positioning statement and the two channels you choose from your write-up.
- Explain why you thought these channels were a good fit for your target segment and product.
- Explain why you thought your investments in push or pull promotion fit your chosen channels partners. 
- Vote for the best threads you find.

my post:

1. Post the positioning statement and the two channels you choose from your write-up.:
For secure comfort seekers, eHealth is the only brand among all smart watches that offers most durable and beautiful smartwatch because our product is made from best quality material and designed by world renowned designers.
Channels: Step it up and rainforest.com

2. Explain why you thought these channels were a good fit for your target segment and product.:
Step it up was used as it is a retailer and some customers in my target segment may need assistance with the product. They have great sales people and their usual customer would be interested in a smart watch.
rainforest.com has a very broad customer base. It is chosen electronics products are widely purchased via online platform.

3. Explain why you thought your investments in push or pull promotion fit your chosen channels partners. :
Step it up: Push, as sales people are influencers in customers decision making
rainforest.com: Pull, as there are no sales people, and have to compete with other brands on side by side comparison.