## 5.3 Channel simulator practice

It's hard to market something without a name!

Enter your original brand name in the box:

**ActivTime**



1. Select your target segment and then continue:

**High-end buyers:** looking for a product to serve an **attractive accessory** as well as a modern device to bring a **heightened sense of technology** and **ease to their lives**. fashion forward,they are looking for a **trendy and lasting top product to fulfil their desires and needs**. Addly, they want a product that **feels comfortable** for all day use.

**Committed self developers:** looking for a watch that can help them monitor their health on daily basis. they want access to the data they need to keep an eye on their physical condition,recognize any concerns as they arise and the ability to present that data to a medical professional. Overall, this group desires a useful product that is easily accessible to give them the info they need to lead healthy happy lives

**Active adventurers:** desire a watch that provides top notch functionality and reliability. Being physically active, they want a product that is built to withstand their adventures. Durability is extremely important as as the customer is looking for a product that can go through everything they can. Wind,rain,snow or sleet these young customers need a product that can keep up with their activities.

**Future forward thinkers:** are looking for a watch that is up to date with the developing tech and able to equip them with modern applications to make life smoother. Having the newest products and staying up-to-date on tech is more important to them than price, as they are excited by the prospect of experiencing innovation in their everyday lives.

**Secure comfort seekers:**  want a watch that can help them regulate their health while also indulging them in all the available amenities and styles offered. As they get older this group is looking for an accessory that is not only attractive but also easy to use and applicable to their daily routines.

**Casual Athletes:** health conscious and active, casual athletes want a watch that can provide them with easy access to their personal health information and a durable design. They want a watch that can help them reach their fitness goals and keep them aware of their health status.



**Simulation1:** Casual Athlete -- health conscious,active,easy access to data, durable, goal tracking

2. Features:

Pulse regulation

Accurate step count

Waterproof

Medical alert

Calorie counter

House car/key

Beautiful

Fashionable

Augmented reality

Unbreakable

3D screen

Advanced voice control

**Choice for Simulation1:** 

​	Try1: accurate step count,waterproof,calorie counter,Fashionable,Unbreakable: Purchase intent score 50%

  Try2:accurate step count,waterproof,calorie counter,,Unbreakable: Purchase intent score:75%

​	Try3: accurate step count,waterproof,Unbreakable: Purchase intent score:100%



3. Positioning statement:

**Simulation1:** For casual Athlete ActivTime is the only brand among all SmartWatches that offers a companionship to your active life by providing ability to manage your health goals and is very durable because it is made from military grade components for precision and is created by best  design and software teams in the world.



4. Where to Sell: choose 2 channel

   Channel options: 

   **Every mart** cheapest price/untrained sales people, low margin

   **Step it Up** focus on health and sports benefits to sell products,sales people with knowledge and engagement with the target segment, fit customers, looking for product to improve athletic abilities

   **Electric Avenue** specializes in all kind of electronics and carry wide variety of brands. standard issue prods rather than high tech. salespeople have some general knowledge but not specialists. customers dont know much about electronics but they know enough to have some pref. need basic functionality

   **Le  gen** high end products, focus on bldg their brand, expensive. sales people well versed in products they carry.customers well off,looking for best products, occasional customers to treat themselves or buy oneoff things they have been saving for.

   **ActivTime.com** lots of effort to advertise and manage sales process. high profit margin and creative control on how you present your brand to customers.

​	**Rainforest.com** Large variety of brands and prods, list each product side by side allowing customers to compare,no physical sales people. broad customer base. Customer acts as sales person by way of recommending and learning about products by themselves

**Simulation1:** Step it up and Rainforest.com  (100% Channel reach score)

5. This month you hope to sell 10,000 units based on your Purchase interest and channel reach score. At a price of $200 per unit you make $2000000 inn gross revenue (100% of channel and purchase score).

   As a start-up you have a marketing budget of 5%, your marketing budget for next period is $100000. In next section utilize marketing budget to invest in Push/Pull promotion for your channels

   

   6. Invest in Channels ($100,000):

      **Simulation1:**

      Step it Up: invest in training salespeople: 10000

      invest in advertising to your end customer: 10000

      provide coupons to end customer:10000

      give retailer margin: 20000

      Rainforest.com:  invest in training salespeople: 0

      invest in advertising to your end customer: 20000

      provide coupons to end customer:10000

      give retailer margin: 20000

**Result Simulation1:**

